---
layout: post
title: An overview
description: "Science is interesting. From discovering gravity to setting foot on moon, every event was a giant leap of success for mankind. Quantum computing, is probably going to shape the future. Let`s see what it is and how easy is it to learn & research. This article provides an overview of quantum mechanics."
time: 5 min
category: articles
tags: [intro, beginner, jekyll, tutorial]
image:
  feature: "post1.jpg"
---

<p style="text-align: justify">This article is inspired from MIT professor Barton Zwiebach`s online courses. If it has been long time since you left college, don`t worry! This article is a short  overview of the key characteristics of Quantum Mechanics which will be helpful in Quantum physics and Quantum Information Science. Prof. Barton caught my attention as soon as I hit play button, he goes, Quantum mechanics is a framework; Wrap it around something it becomes quantum-something. For example, quantum mechanics applied to physical phenomena gives Quantum physics and similarly quantum mechanics applied to photons (in regular english when applied to light and optical devices) turns into quantum optics and so on. Although there is a lot of research going on at the moment, the era of quantum physics began in 1925 with the discoveries of Schrodinger and Heisenberg, while the seeds for these discoveries were planted by Planck, Einstein, Bohr, de Broglie, and others. This field is counterintuitive and it might seem paradoxical and let`s see why.</p>

Lets understand the following key features of Quantum Mechanics:
### Property of Linearity;
<p style="text-align: justify">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Quantum mechanics shares the property of linearity with electromagnetic theory which helps us understand the theory of quantum mechanics. It  could  be argued, quantum mechanics is  simpler  than  classical mechanics. A theory is a set of equations with variables for which we have to find solutions for. There are linear and nonlinear theories of which non linear theories are complicated than linear theories. In a linear theory, we can add two solutions to obtain a third solution, marvelous right. Maxwell`s theory of electromagnetism is an example, where a solution can be described as an electromagnetic wave propagating in a direction. Another solution is an electromagnetic wave propagating in another direction. Sum of these two waves is also a solution. Which is true, as we see it in real life from cell phones, TVs and radios. The air around you is full of electromagnetic waves, each one propagating oblivious to the other ones. I can`t imagine my information being transmitted to a wrong recipient :) Let`s look at this in action;</p>

<p style="text-align: justify">A solution of Maxwell's equation is described by an electric field $\LARGE E$, a magnetic field $\LARGE B$, a charge density $\LARGE \rho$ and a current density $\LARGE J$, all collectively denoted as $\LARGE (E; B; \rho; J)$. Linearity implies if $\LARGE (E; B; \rho; J)$ is a solution, so is $\LARGE (\alpha E; \alpha B; \alpha \rho; \alpha J)$. Likewise, given two solutions $\LARGE ( E_1; B_1; \rho_1; J_1)$ and $\LARGE ( E_2; B_2; \rho_2; J_2)$, we can obtain a new solution by adding them resulting in, $$\LARGE ( E_1 + E_2; B_1 + B_2; \rho_1 + \rho_2; J_1 + J_2)$$ We will consider equations for which the solutions satisfy the following conditions:  $\LARGE(i)$ given a solution, any multiple of the solution is also a solution and, $\LARGE(ii)$ given two solutions the sum of solutions is also a solution.  We will call these linear equations, and they take the general form $$\LARGE Lu=0$$ where u denotes the unknown variable. The unknown may be a number, a function of  time,  a function of space, a function of spacetime, essentially anything unknown!  In fact, $\LARGE u$ could represent a collection $\LARGE(u1;u2;:::)$ of unknowns.  The symbol $\LARGE L$ denotes a linear operator, an object that acts on $\LARGE u$ and satises the following two properties: $$\LARGE L(\alpha u)=\alpha L u,$$ $$\LARGE L(u_1 + u_2)=L u_1 + L u_2$$ Now, bear this property in mind, the equation will be introduced in a minute.</p>

### Complex Numbers;
<p style="text-align: justify">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The signature equation in this theory is the Schrodinger equation which is a linear equation for a quantity called the wave function and it determines its time evolution.Max Born, who months later after writing this equation, suggested that the wavefunction encodes probabilities. The Schrodinger equation is a partial differential equation that takes the form $$\LARGE i\hbar \frac{\partial\Psi}{\partial t} = \hat{\mathcal{H}} \Psi $$ where $\LARGE i$ is the imaginary unit $\LARGE (i=\sqrt{-1})$, $\LARGE \hbar$ is Planck's constant, and $\LARGE \hat{\mathcal{H}}$ is the Hamiltonian or energy  operator.  The wavefunction is  a complex  number. The Hamiltonian $\LARGE \hat{\mathcal{H}}$ is a linear operator that can act on wavefunctions: $\LARGE \hat{\mathcal{H}}(\alpha \Psi) = \alpha \hat{\mathcal{H}} \Psi$ and $\LARGE \hat{\mathcal{H}}(\Psi_1 + \Psi_2) = \hat{\mathcal{H}}(\Psi_1) + \hat{\mathcal{H}}(\Psi_2)$, where $\LARGE \alpha$ is a complex constant. $$\LARGE L\Psi=i\hbar \frac{\partial\Psi}{\partial t} - \hat{\mathcal{H}} \Psi=0$$ for the Schrodinger equation to be linear. It is now easy to verify that L is a linear operator. In quantum mechanics, complex numbers are fundamental. Since complex numbers cannot be directly measured the relation between the wavefunction and a measurable quantity must be somewhat indirect. So, Max Born's idea to identify probabilities, which are always positive real numbers, with the square of the norm of the wavefuntion $\LARGE |\Psi|^2$ was the idea. Moving on; So far so good, now let`s dive into those counterintuitive characteristics;</p>

Will be posting the remaining article soon :)
### Loss of Determinism;
### Quantum Superpositions;
### Entanglement;
